README.md, before:

# Overview

This is the base layer for charms that wish to take advantage of the
Apache Bigtop platform for configuring and deploying services via
puppet. [Including this layer][building] gives you access to a Python
class called Bigtop, which contains, among other things, tools for
triggering a puppet run.

[building]: https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/authors-charm-building


# Usage

To create a charm using this base layer, first you must include it in
your `layer.yaml` file:

```yaml
includes: ['layer:apache-bigtop-base']
```

This will fetch the layer from [interfaces.juju.solutions][] and
incorporate it into your charm. To use the Bigtop class, import it,
then call its `.render_site_yaml` and `.trigger_puppet` routines in
sequence, like so (you might notice that Bigtop also has an `.install`
routine -- this is run automatically in the reactive handlers of this
layer; you don't need to call it yourself):

[interfaces.juju.solutions]: http://interfaces.juju.solutions/

```python
from charms.layer.apache_bigtop_base import Bigtop

# Setup arguments to pass to .render_site_yaml
hosts = {'some_bigtop_service': <host>}
roles = ['some_bigtop_service_nodetype0', 'some_bigtop_service_nodetype1']
override = {'some_bigtop_service::somekey': <somevalue>, ...}

# Trigger a puppet run
bigtop = Bigtop()
bigtop.render_site_yaml(hosts, roles, override)
bigtop.trigger_puppet()
```

This tells Bigtop to run puppet and install your service.

How does Bigtop know what to install? You tell it what to install by
passing a list of *roles* to `.render_site_yaml`. You may wish to
consult [this list of valid roles][roles] to see what is available.

[roles]: https://github.com/apache/bigtop/blob/master/bigtop-deploy/puppet/manifests/cluster.pp)

**Note**: Bigtop is also able to generate a list of roles from a
*component*. The Bigtop class is theoretically able to infer
components from the *hosts* dict that you pass to
`.render_site_yaml`. As of this writing, this code path is not well
tested, so you may want to specify roles explicitly. [List of
valid components][components].

[components]: https://github.com/apache/bigtop/blob/master/bigtop-deploy/puppet/hieradata/site.yaml

## Reactive states

This layer will set the following states:

  * *bigtop.available*: This state is set after `Bigtop.install` has
      been run. At this point, you are free to invoke
      `Bigtop.render_site_yaml`.

## Layer configuration

Bigtop actually takes care of most of the configuration details for
you. You can specify overrides if needed -- either in code or in your
layer.yaml -- and pass those in in an *overrides* dict when you call
`Bigtop.render_site_yaml`.

Depending on your service, you'll also need to tell Bigtop where to
find important hosts, by passing a dict of *hosts* to
`Bigtop.render_site_yaml`.

The leadership layer may come in handy when it comes to populating
that hosts dict.

## Actions

This layer provides a generic `smoke-test` action that will invoke [Bigtop
smoke tests][bigtop-smoke]. This is meant to serve as a template for
writing a Bigtop charm-specific test. See the [Zookeeper smoke
test][zk-smoke] as an example of extending this generic action.

[bigtop-smoke]: https://github.com/apache/bigtop/tree/master/bigtop-tests/smoke-tests
[zk-smoke]: https://github.com/apache/bigtop/blob/master/bigtop-packages/src/charm/zookeeper/layer-zookeeper/actions/smoke-test

## Unit Tests

To run unit tests for this layer, change to the root directory of the
layer in a terminal, and run `tox -c tox_unit.ini`. To tweak settings,
such as making the tests more or less verbose, edit tox_unit.ini.


# Contributing

This charm has been built on top of the Apache Bigtop project. Bug
fixes, new features and other contributions to this charm are welcome,
and encouraged!

For instructions on finding source code, formatting pull requests, and
getting help, please visit the [Contributing page][contributing] on our
wiki.

[contributing]: https://github.com/juju-solutions/bigdata-community/wiki/Contributing


# Contact Information

- <bigdata@lists.ubuntu.com>


# Resources

- [Apache Bigtop home page](http://bigtop.apache.org/)
- [Apache Bigtop issue tracking](http://bigtop.apache.org/issue-tracking.html)
- [Apache Bigtop mailing lists](http://bigtop.apache.org/mail-lists.html)
- [Juju Big Data](https://jujucharms.com/big-data)
- [Juju Bigtop charms](https://jujucharms.com/q/bigtop)
- [Juju mailing list](https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/juju)

Commit message:

support restricted networks (#58)
* restricted net: pack required puppet modules into the charms

* add bigtop-repo resource; try to extract it first, falling back to git clone

* replace ch.payload.archive with unzip

charmhelpers.payload.archive utilizies Zipfile.extractall, which
doesn't preserve file modes:

https://bugs.python.org/issue15795

This breaks when we try to run things like ./gradlew, because it
no longer has the executable bit set.

Replace this madness with subprocess unzip.

Also cleanup some yahoo's chdir tomfoolery.

* document repo resource; fix unit tests

README.md, after:

# Overview

This is the base layer for charms that wish to take advantage of the
Apache Bigtop platform for configuring and deploying services via
puppet. [Including this layer][building] gives you access to a Python
class called Bigtop, which contains, among other things, tools for
triggering a puppet run.

[building]: https://jujucharms.com/docs/stable/authors-charm-building


# Usage

To create a charm using this base layer, first you must include it in
your `layer.yaml` file:

```yaml
includes: ['layer:apache-bigtop-base']
```

This will fetch the layer from [interfaces.juju.solutions][] and
incorporate it into your charm. To use the Bigtop class, import it,
then call its `.render_site_yaml` and `.trigger_puppet` routines in
sequence, like so (you might notice that Bigtop also has an `.install`
routine -- this is run automatically in the reactive handlers of this
layer; you don't need to call it yourself):

[interfaces.juju.solutions]: http://interfaces.juju.solutions/

```python
from charms.layer.apache_bigtop_base import Bigtop

# Setup arguments to pass to .render_site_yaml
hosts = {'some_bigtop_service': <host>}
roles = ['some_bigtop_service_nodetype0', 'some_bigtop_service_nodetype1']
override = {'some_bigtop_service::somekey': <somevalue>, ...}

# Trigger a puppet run
bigtop = Bigtop()
bigtop.render_site_yaml(hosts, roles, override)
bigtop.trigger_puppet()
```

This tells Bigtop to run puppet and install your service.

How does Bigtop know what to install? You tell it what to install by
passing a list of *roles* to `.render_site_yaml`. You may wish to
consult [this list of valid roles][roles] to see what is available.

[roles]: https://github.com/apache/bigtop/blob/master/bigtop-deploy/puppet/manifests/cluster.pp)

**Note**: Bigtop is also able to generate a list of roles from a
*component*. The Bigtop class is theoretically able to infer
components from the *hosts* dict that you pass to
`.render_site_yaml`. As of this writing, this code path is not well
tested, so you may want to specify roles explicitly. [List of
valid components][components].

[components]: https://github.com/apache/bigtop/blob/master/bigtop-deploy/puppet/hieradata/site.yaml

## Reactive states

This layer will set the following states:

  * *bigtop.available*: This state is set after `Bigtop.install` has
      been run. At this point, you are free to invoke
      `Bigtop.render_site_yaml`.

## Layer configuration

Bigtop actually takes care of most of the configuration details for
you. You can specify overrides if needed -- either in code or in your
layer.yaml -- and pass those in in an *overrides* dict when you call
`Bigtop.render_site_yaml`.

Depending on your service, you'll also need to tell Bigtop where to
find important hosts, by passing a dict of *hosts* to
`Bigtop.render_site_yaml`.

The leadership layer may come in handy when it comes to populating
that hosts dict.

## Actions

This layer provides a generic `smoke-test` action that will invoke [Bigtop
smoke tests][bigtop-smoke]. This is meant to serve as a template for
writing a Bigtop charm-specific test. See the [Zookeeper smoke
test][zk-smoke] as an example of extending this generic action.

[bigtop-smoke]: https://github.com/apache/bigtop/tree/master/bigtop-tests/smoke-tests
[zk-smoke]: https://github.com/apache/bigtop/blob/master/bigtop-packages/src/charm/zookeeper/layer-zookeeper/actions/smoke-test

## Bigtop Source

Bigtop charms require project source that includes the puppet manifests and
modules used to deploy Bigtop software. This layer provides the ability to
specify a zip archive of the [Bigtop source repository][bigtop-repo]. By
default, the latest tagged release of the Bigtop source repository is used.
You may specify a different archive when deploying a Bigtop charm. For example:

```
juju deploy hadoop-namenode --resource bigtop-repo=/tmp/branch-1.1.zip
```

[bigtop-repo]: https://github.com/apache/bigtop/tree/master

## Unit Tests

To run unit tests for this layer, change to the root directory of the
layer in a terminal, and run `tox -c tox_unit.ini`. To tweak settings,
such as making the tests more or less verbose, edit tox_unit.ini.


# Contributing

This charm has been built on top of the Apache Bigtop project. Bug
fixes, new features and other contributions to this charm are welcome,
and encouraged!

For instructions on finding source code, formatting pull requests, and
getting help, please visit the [Contributing page][contributing] on our
wiki.

[contributing]: https://github.com/juju-solutions/bigdata-community/wiki/Contributing


# Contact Information

- <bigdata@lists.ubuntu.com>


# Resources

- [Apache Bigtop home page](http://bigtop.apache.org/)
- [Apache Bigtop issue tracking](http://bigtop.apache.org/issue-tracking.html)
- [Apache Bigtop mailing lists](http://bigtop.apache.org/mail-lists.html)
- [Juju Big Data](https://jujucharms.com/big-data)
- [Juju Bigtop charms](https://jujucharms.com/q/bigtop)
- [Juju mailing list](https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/juju)
